Lab Assignment - 1

Programs on the following topic:
Develop a lexical analyzer to recognize a few patterns in C. (Ex. identifiers, constants,
Comments, operators etc.)

1.    Write a C program to check if a user given string is a valid identifier or not?
2.    Write a C program to check if a user given C program statement is a valid Comment or not?
3.    Write a C program to read a program written in a file and remove all comments. After removing all comments, rewrite the program in a separate file.
4.    Write a C program to convert an infix statement into a postfix statement.
5.    Write a C program to evaluate an arithmetic expression which is given as a string. Consider the input has no parentheses and contains the following operators only: +, -, *, /


Lab Assignment 2

Implementation of Lexical Analyzer using Lex Tool
 
1.    Write a Lex Program to count the number of characters, words, keyword, number, spaces, end of lines in a given input file.
2.    Write a Lex Program to count the number of vowels and consonants in a given string.
3.    Write a Lex Program to count no of: a) +ve and –ve integers b) +ve and –ve fractions
4.    Write a Lex Program to count the no of comment line in a given C program. Also eliminate them and copy that program into separate file.
5.    Write a Lex Program to count the no of ‘scanf’ and ‘printf’ statements in a C program. Replace them with ‘readf’ and ‘writef’ statements respectively
6.    Write a Lex Program to recognize a valid arithmetic expression and identify the identifiers and operators present. Print them separately.
7.    Write a Lex Program to recognize whether a given sentence is simple or compound.
8.    Write a Lex Program to implement arithmetic calculator.


Lab Assignment 3-A

Programs on the following topic:
Generate YACC specification for a few syntactic categories.
a.    Program to recognize a valid arithmetic expression that uses operator +, – , * and /.
b.    Program to recognize a valid variable which starts with a letter followed by any number of letters or digits.
c.    Implementation of Calculator using LEX and YACC
 
1.    Write a Lex Program to recognize and count the number of identifiers in a given input file.
2.    Write a YAAC Program to test the validity of a simple expression involving operators +, -, * and /
3.    Write a YAAC Program to recognize nested IF control statements and display the levels of nesting.
4.    Write a YAAC Program to check the syntax of a simple expression involving operators +, -, * and /
5.    Write a YAAC Program to evaluate an arithmetic expression involving operating +, -, * and /  
6.    Write a YAAC Program to recognize a valid variable, which starts with a letter, followed by any number of letters or digits.
7.    Write a YAAC Program to recognize strings ‘aaab’, ‘abbb’, ‘ab’ and ‘a’ using grammar (an b n , n>=0)
8.    Write a YAAC Program to recognize the grammar (an b, n>=10)
9.    Write a YACC Program to implement arithmetic calculator.


Lab Assignment 4

Problem Statement
1. Write a Program to implement Symbol Table.
2. Write a Program to Convert the BNF rules into YACC form and write code to generate Abstract Syntax Tree
3. Write a C program to implement type checking.
4. Write a C program to implement control flow analysis and Data flow Analysis.


Lab Assignment 5: Project

1. Write a C program to implement Stack storage allocation strategies.

2. Write a C program to implement DAG.

3. Implement the back end of the compiler which takes the three
address code and produces the 8086 assembly language instructions
that can be assembled and run using a 8086 assembler. The target
assembly instructions can be simple move, add, sub, jump. Also
simple addressing modes are used.